# UMDScheduler

UMDScheduler is a tool that helps University of Maryland students generate potential class schedules for an upcoming semester. The idea is based on the website [Venus](https://venus.umd.edu/), which is a similar website provided by UMD. The main difference between UMDScheduler and Venus is that UMDScheduler interfaces with the PlanetTerp API to get professor information, which Venus doesn't do. This allows UMDScheduler to filter out professors that the student doesn't want to take, which is a feature that Venus doesn't have.

## Backend

The main functionality for the backend is contained in the source file `scheduler.py`. This file is responsible for taking the input from the frontend and generating a schedule that fits the student's needs. The backend uses a depth-first search algorithm to generate all possible schedules while filtering out the schedules that do not meet the student's requirements (based on things like amount of seats open or professors they don't want to take). The backend then returns the schedules to the frontend. Also found in the backend is the source file `api.py`, which is responsible for handling the API requests from the frontend. It is a simple Flask server that listens for requests from the frontend and returns the schedules generated by `scheduler.py`.

## Frontend

The frontend is built in Svelte and is contained in the `frontend` directory. It is a single page web app with a few different components, responsible for things such as taking in user input such as what classes they would like, what times they are available, and what professors they don't want to take. The frontend then sends this information to the backend, which generates the schedules and sends them back to the frontend. The frontend then displays the schedules to the user, in a clean and easy to read format.

## Future Steps

1. Clean up the UI
2. Add more features such as saving schedules, sharing schedules, and perhaps being able to open schedules in Testudo and automatically register for classes.
3. Add more customization options for the user, such as being able to specify how many credits they want to take, or how many days a week they want to have class. One thing I especially want to add is required and non required classes which is a really cool feature that Venus has.
